README.md, before:

docker-vxlan-plugin is a vxlan plugin for docker that enables plumbing docker containers into an existing vxlan network.

## Use Cases
The out of box networking options for docker are built around a use case common to deployment on managed virtual servers where each host has a single public IP address. They are not well suited to bare metal datacenter deployments where routing can be controlled and multiple layers of nat is undesirable. This plugin does not nat your containers and assumes that you're running it in an environment where you know how to distribute routes to your vxlan network.

## How it works
When a container joins a network created with the vxlan driver if they don't already exist a vxlan interface and linux bridge interface are created. The vxlan interface is added to the bridge. The veth device is then created and the host side of the veth is added to the bridge, the container side is passed back to the docker daemon to be put in the container's namespace.

## Running the plugin

### Run from docker

```sh
docker run -v /run/docker/plugins/:/run/docker/plugins -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock --privileged  --net=host clinta/docker-vxlan-plugin
```

The plugin must be run in privileged mode with host networking to be able to add network links to the system.

### Run outside docker

Download the latest release binary and execute it.

## Options

### Daemon Options

#### -d

debug output

#### -scope

scope of the plugin. Can be either `local` or `global`. Default is `local`. If `-scope=global` is specified the network options will be published to the docker cluster key-value store and containers can be brought up on the network on any host in the cluster after the network has been created. The global scope will also allow the default global IPAM driver to be used which will coordinate IP address allocation between all hosts in a docker cluster. Note that in global scope the gateway address specified during network creation will not be assigned to the host, but it will still be passed to containers as their default route.

#### -vtepdev

The device to use as the VTep endpoint. If this is specified as a daemon option it takes presidence over a VtepDev specified as a `network create` option.

### Network create options

The following options can be passed to `docker network create` as `-o option=value`. Please consult the man page for ip link and see the vxlan section for more details on some of these options.

#### bridgeName

Name of the bridge interface

#### bridgeMTU

MTU of the bridge interface

#### bridgeHardwareAddr

MAC Address of the bridge interface.

#### bridgeTXQLen

Transaction Queue Length of the bridge interface

#### vxlanName

Name of the vxlan interface

#### vxlanMTU

MTU of the vxlan interface

#### vxlanHardwareAddr

MAC Address of the vxlan interface

#### vxlanTxQLen

Transaction Queue Length of the vxlan interface

#### VxlanId

specifies the VXLAN Network Identifer (or VXLAN Segment Identifier) to use.

#### VtepDev

specifies the physical device to use for tunnel endpoint communication.

#### SrcAddr

specifies the source IP address to use in outgoing packets.

#### Group

specifies the multicast IP address to join.

#### TTL

specifies the TTL value to use in outgoing packets.

#### TOS

specifies the TOS value to use in outgoing packets.

#### Learning

specifies if unknown source link layer addresses and IP addresses are entered into the VXLAN device forwarding database.

#### Proxy

specifies ARP proxy is turned on.

#### RSC

specifies if route short circuit is turned on.

#### L2miss

specifies if netlink LLADDR miss notifications are generated.

#### L3miss

specifies if netlink IP ADDR miss notifications are generated.

#### NoAge

Do not age FDB entries.

#### GBP

enables the Group Policy extension (VXLAN-GBP).

#### Age

specifies the lifetime in seconds of FDB entries learnt by the kernel.

#### Limit

specifies the maximum number of FDB entries.

#### PortLow

specifies the minimum UDP source port

#### PortHigh

specifies the maximum UDP source port

Commit message:

clarify gateway use in global mode

README.md, after:

docker-vxlan-plugin is a vxlan plugin for docker that enables plumbing docker containers into an existing vxlan network.

## Use Cases
The out of box networking options for docker are built around a use case common to deployment on managed virtual servers where each host has a single public IP address. They are not well suited to bare metal datacenter deployments where routing can be controlled and multiple layers of nat is undesirable. This plugin does not nat your containers and assumes that you're running it in an environment where you know how to distribute routes to your vxlan network. If you run in global mode it is expected that you will set the gateway to the IP address of another router that already exists on your vxlan network.

## How it works
When a container joins a network created with the vxlan driver if they don't already exist a vxlan interface and linux bridge interface are created. The vxlan interface is added to the bridge. The veth device is then created and the host side of the veth is added to the bridge, the container side is passed back to the docker daemon to be put in the container's namespace.

## Running the plugin

### Run from docker

```sh
docker run -v /run/docker/plugins/:/run/docker/plugins -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock --privileged  --net=host clinta/docker-vxlan-plugin
```

The plugin must be run in privileged mode with host networking to be able to add network links to the system.

### Run outside docker

Download the latest release binary and execute it.

## Options

### Daemon Options

#### -d

debug output

#### -scope

scope of the plugin. Can be either `local` or `global`. Default is `local`. If `-scope=global` is specified the network options will be published to the docker cluster key-value store and containers can be brought up on the network on any host in the cluster after the network has been created. The global scope will also allow the default global IPAM driver to be used which will coordinate IP address allocation between all hosts in a docker cluster. Note that in global scope the gateway address specified during network creation will not be assigned to the host, but it will still be passed to containers as their default route.

#### -vtepdev

The device to use as the VTep endpoint. If this is specified as a daemon option it takes presidence over a VtepDev specified as a `network create` option.

### Network create options

The following options can be passed to `docker network create` as `-o option=value`. Please consult the man page for ip link and see the vxlan section for more details on some of these options.

#### bridgeName

Name of the bridge interface

#### bridgeMTU

MTU of the bridge interface

#### bridgeHardwareAddr

MAC Address of the bridge interface.

#### bridgeTXQLen

Transaction Queue Length of the bridge interface

#### vxlanName

Name of the vxlan interface

#### vxlanMTU

MTU of the vxlan interface

#### vxlanHardwareAddr

MAC Address of the vxlan interface

#### vxlanTxQLen

Transaction Queue Length of the vxlan interface

#### VxlanId

specifies the VXLAN Network Identifer (or VXLAN Segment Identifier) to use.

#### VtepDev

specifies the physical device to use for tunnel endpoint communication.

#### SrcAddr

specifies the source IP address to use in outgoing packets.

#### Group

specifies the multicast IP address to join.

#### TTL

specifies the TTL value to use in outgoing packets.

#### TOS

specifies the TOS value to use in outgoing packets.

#### Learning

specifies if unknown source link layer addresses and IP addresses are entered into the VXLAN device forwarding database.

#### Proxy

specifies ARP proxy is turned on.

#### RSC

specifies if route short circuit is turned on.

#### L2miss

specifies if netlink LLADDR miss notifications are generated.

#### L3miss

specifies if netlink IP ADDR miss notifications are generated.

#### NoAge

Do not age FDB entries.

#### GBP

enables the Group Policy extension (VXLAN-GBP).

#### Age

specifies the lifetime in seconds of FDB entries learnt by the kernel.

#### Limit

specifies the maximum number of FDB entries.

#### PortLow

specifies the minimum UDP source port

#### PortHigh

specifies the maximum UDP source port
